# MindEase
AI based mental health counsellor
# The idea basically
## An AI-powered personal mental health coach that can analyze your mental state, suggest coping strategies, and help you manage stress and anxiety.
The main idea of this project is to be able to diagnose basic mental health conditions such as depression via the use of a binary search/AVL or whatever tree. 
Natural Language processing is a very important part of this project, we will ask the user indirect questions and from that we will take the data we need and work towards diagnosing the patient. So the workflow will be: there exist questions that ascertain specific things, indirectly, for example, asking the user how they have been feeling emotionally, or how excited they are on a day to day basis, the core of this is to disguise the question in such a manner that the final data that we take is not easily understood by the user so that they do not change the answer to meet a certain answer archetype. This is where NLP comes into play, we use NLP to decode or understand what the person has said into data readable form and then turn this information into data points and from these data points, we can run a search tree and narrow down to the best (ouch) mental illness, and nothing at all. Now that I think about it, a tree is a bad idea and a best fit line would be a better idea to implement because we will have an error margin and a bias margin so to use a tree would be a big error, and by using a line we can have a more open range of final destinations instead of pre-defined points. About the part that humans are different and that no two people are the same is a very valid point to bring forth, but all tendencies have some underlying symptoms, loneliness is often passed off by people as “nah I don’t enjoy their company”, sometimes, very rarely, that’s the case but in majority of the cases it’s some underlying issue that the user has not found about, and often on deeper introspection, they turn over the root cause, and sometimes even after finding the root cause, they choose to ignore it, as a wrong diagnosis, this is known as the personal bias, I don’t know a name for this but I think this fits pretty well. This is where the need for a counsellor comes in, but in India, as we know, mental health is a mental “illness” and many people often don’t come out and ask for help, even when there are people willing to do it, often having their livelihoods depend on it (we’re taking that away lol), so to make it more anonymous so that a person can log on, have a small chat and understand what they’re feeling is not unique to them and that they have a way out of that tunnel of darkness, and maybe this can push them to actually consult an IRL counsellor, another idea for counsellors is to have them give us training data that we can work upon, further improving the model, but keeping in mind to not over train it. The idea is very simple but the execution is going to be tough. It can either be an app or a website, either works, depends what you all vote for. The input is going to be in forms of paragraphs that will be broken down using NLP, we’ll be borrowing that tech so yeah, we can train our own model based on what we mean to extract and understand what the user subliminally means. So yeah, that about does it.
